# Report 1

###### Emily Hansen, Lena Le, Isabelle Melton, Jonathan Burks

###### January 16, 2022

###### Central Washington University, CS480, Dr. Leitert

## Organization

The organization methodologies our team has chosen follows an Agile Development Model, with an
alignment towards Scrum processes. This process model has been decided on as the best fit for both
our team and for the project our team has been given; this is due to a variety of factors.

The Agile model, particularly Scrum, is the most familiar amongst the developers on our team, which
will allow planning, organization, and development processes to achieve high efficiency and
productivity sooner. In addition, the Agile Model is beneficial in projects that initially have
ambiguous requirements; this process model will allow crucial flexibility in the development process
as requirements are further defined and, potentially, changed. Due to the project given being fairly
small (non-enterprise), as well, it has been decided that an incrementally and evolutionary-based
Agile model would be the best suited for this project.

The team will follow Scrum practices such as User Story-driven development and ideation, Backlog
Refinement and Planning, Sprint Planning, daily 15-minute meetings, and asynchronous communication
between team members outside these meetings.

For the development organization, the team will be using the Version Control tool Git, as well as
the Git Management service GitHub. The project, as well as all of its documents, will be held in a
single monolithic Git repository. Each team member will be an active Contributor on the project
repository; when in active development each team member will put create in-progess code in a new
branch and, upon completion, will put their code up for code review. Once approved by other team
members in code review, the newly completed code will be merged into the main branch of the
repository for others to use.

## Technologies and Tools

Our strategy for picking out the tools and technology to be used boiled down to usability,
familiarity, and convenience. As a team, we all agreed on using Java to develop our program because
we are all experienced with this programming language. We also believe that Java will be most
flexible as project requirements and restrictions change.

In terms of communication, our team has chosen Discord as the primary communication hub where we can
share our thoughts and ideas, host meetings, and brainstorm collaboratively. Another tool we are
using to edit and refine our thoughts is Google Docs. We mainly use Google Docs for the live editing
option it provides. Sharing our ideas in real-time helps us work more effectively and efficiently as
developers.

Lastly, for version control, we are using Git and GitHub to share our code, documentation, and
important files. Git/GitHub is a reliable tool that allows us to store our program and view our
progress in a secure environment.

## Needs From Client

Regarding what we would need from the client, there are three things that immediately come to mind.

The first thing we would need is a list of which classes the prospective TAs have taken, and a list
of the classes that are available to TA, as a student who has not taken a class cannot TA it.

The second thing we would need would be a list of preferences from the prospective TAs, possibly in
the form of a 1 to 10 scale, with a 1 being the least desire to TA a class and a 10 being the most
desire to TA a class. The numeric data would be helpful as another metric that we could use to
assign TAs to classes on an individual basis.

The third thing that comes to mind would be the grades that the prospective TAs received in the
classes they would be signing up for. This would allow us to hopefully match students with the
classes that they would be most likely to successfully TA.

It is important to note that there may be additional information that we require as the specific
nature of the programâ€™s requirements are revealed to us as students.

## Current Progress

We have already made quite a bit of progress. We have held multiple initial team meetings to discuss
roles, organization, project scope, technologies, and requirements. Our team meetings allowed us to
each provide different ideas and feedback for this project.

From these meetings we decided that we would use the Agile Methodology as our team organization
structure, as this seemed the best for group synergy. We have also decided on multiple platforms and
tech stacks to use to structure our team organization, communication, and development. These include
the use of Discord for team meetings, Google Docs for collaborating on reports, and a Github
repository for the storage and organization of future code.

We then discussed requirements and answers that were needed from the client. While in the mindset of
what a client would want, we were able to come up with conditions a client might have for a project
of this scope and thought about how we could possibly solve those problems.

